
<h1><center>Why DSL</center></h1>

<center>**Ryan J. Kung**</center>
<center>**ryankung(at)ieee.org**</center>

## Conclusion

We perfer to use DSLs is addressing that in *model complete therory* and *definition of DSLs*, it is a more concrete and direct way for doing modeling better, because $iff$ a model $M$ is model complete, it is equalize to the $DSL$ of that Model.

## DSL

There are two main schools of DSLs: $internal$ and $external$ DSLs[1]. The $concrete\ syntax$ defines the notation with wihich users can express programs. 

A DSL or GPL may include follow ingredients[2]:

* $abstract\ syntax$ 

    which is a data structure that can hold the semantically relevant information express by a program.
    
    
* $static\ semantics$

    Which Of language are the set of constraints and/or type system rules to which programs have to conform. 


* $Excution Semantics$

    Which refers to the meaning of a program once it is execuded. It is realized using the $execution\ engine$.

## Modeling, and Model Complete

### Modeling

There are two ways in which the term modeling can be understood: **descriptive** and **preciptive**. A descriptive model represent an existing system Thus a presciptive model is one that can be used to construct the target system. In DSL engineering, we always mean *prescriptive* models when we use the term model[3].

### Model Complete

In model theory, a first-order theory is called model complete if every embedding of models is an elementary embedding. Equivalently, every first-order formula is equivalent to a universal formula[6].

A **companion** of a theory $T$ is a theory $T^*$ such that every model of $T$ can be embedded in a model of $T^*$ and vice versa.

A **model companion** of a theory $T$ is a companion of $T$ that is model complete. $Robinson$ proved that a theory has at most one model companion.

A model completion for a theory $T$ is a model companion $T^*$ such that for any model $M$ of $T$, the theory of $T^*$ together with the diagram of $M$ is complete. Roughly speaking, this means every model of $T$ is embeddable in a model of $T^*$ in a unique way.

### GPL and Turing Complete

We known that the **GPL** is always **Turing Complete**. **Turing Complete** is means that a GPL it can be used to simulate any single-taped Turing machine. Turing Complete is actualy a preciptive model of **Turing Machine**.

### Domains and Model complete

When we said that a language $l$ covers a subset of $P$, we can simply call this subset the $domain$ covered with $l$. The subset of $P$ in that domain $P_D$ is equal to the subset of $P$ we can express with a language $l$ $P_l$. So, we cannot ask a question like: "Does the language adequately cover the domain?", **since it always does, by definition**.[4] And the definition can be also interept as that "**DSL is always model complete, by definition**"

#### Completeness

A DSL  might be eighter **incomplete-DSL** or **complete-DSL**, is determined by **Completeless** which is refers and only refers to the degree to which a language $L$ can express programs that contain all necessary information to execute them. An program express in an incomplete DSL requires additional specifications (such as configuation files or code written in a lower-level language) to make it executable.[5]

# Referance

[1][2][3]DSL Engineering, Designing, Implementing and Using Domain-Specific Languages, Markus Voelter, dslbook.org, ch 2.1

[4]DSL Engineering, Designing, Implementing and Using Domain-Specific Languages, Markus Voelter, dslbook.org, ch 3.1

[5]DSL Engineering, Designing, Implementing and Using Domain-Specific Languages, Markus Voelter, dslbook.org, ch 4.5

[6] Chang, Chen Chung; Keisler, H. Jerome (1990) [1973], Model Theory, Studies in Logic and the Foundations of Mathematics (3rd ed.), Elsevier, ISBN 978-0-444-88054-3


```python

```
